Source: https://www.qubes-os.org/doc/how-to-copy-and-move-files/#security

The inter-qube file copy system is secure because it doesn’t allow other qubes to steal the files that are being copied, and it doesn’t allow the source qube to overwrite arbitrary files on the destination qube. Moreover, this system doesn’t use any sort of virtual block device for file copy. Instead, we use Xen shared memory, which eliminates a lot of processing of untrusted data. For example, the receiving qube is _not_ forced to parse untrusted partitions or file systems. In this respect, the inter-qube file copy system provides even more security than file copy between two physically separated (air-gapped) machines! (See [Software compartmentalization vs. physical separation](https://invisiblethingslab.com/resources/2014/Software_compartmentalization_vs_physical_separation.pdf) for more on this.)

However, one should keep in mind that performing a data transfer from _less trusted_ to _more trusted_ qubes is always potentially insecure if the data will be parsed in the target qube. This is because the data that we copy could try to exploit some hypothetical bug in software running in the target qube. For example, a seemingly-innocent JPEG that we copy from an untrusted qube might contain a specially-crafted exploit for a bug in a JPEG-parsing application in the target qube. This is a general problem and applies to any data transfer from _less trusted_ to _more trusted_ qubes. It even applies to the scenario of copying files between air-gapped machines. Therefore, you should always copy data only from _more trusted_ to _less trusted_ qubes.

